# PyBerAnalysis

PyBer is a fictional ride sharing company. In this project I used two CSVs (one for with individual ride data, the other with data for
each city) to do my analysis in Jupyter notebook with the python library pandas. I used Matplotlib to create visualizations highlighting
the differences in the company's usage in rural, suburban, and urban settings.

Analysis from the data:

* There are a disproportionate number of drivers in urban areas. At first this sounds intuitive- that there are more people in urban areas and significantly more rides being taken (nearly 69% of overall rides), so, it is only natural that more drivers will sign up where they have the opportunity to work more. In actuality though, the average driver in urban areas drives LESS than the average driver in both suburban and rural areas (urban = 0.7 rides/driver, suburban = 1.3 rides/driver, and rural = 1.6 rides/driver).

* Expanding on the previous point, rides in urban areas produce fares that are, on average, ten dollars less than rides in rural areas (~25 dollars in urban areas vs ~35 dollars in rural areas). This means that drivers in urban areas will give less rides and earn less money per ride than their counterparts in rural areas. In total, rural drivers are producing over three times more revenue than urban drivers. If someone is looking to drive for Pyber I will be recommending that they get out of the city in order to maximize profits.

* More data is needed to interpret the demand for Pyber's ride sharing service. Two key data points that would be helpful in understanding the overall success of this early start up are the amount of time drivers are spending "on the clock" and the average wait time for for riders from the time they request their ride via the app to the time they are picked up by the driver. The first data point would give an information on whether there are too many drivers or not enough. On paper it seems like there are too many drivers as most drivers who were signed up for the app only drove about one time the entire year. However, for a start up that is anticipating growth having an early surplus of drivers isn't necessarily a bad thing. It gets bad if all of these drivers are actively working and waiting for rides and they each only got one ride for the whole year. The second data point would provide information on customer service. If the average wait time to get picked up is high then not enough of the registered drivers are actively working. These two data points would provide insightful information about the funcitonality of Pyber for both drivers and riders alike.

* A few tips for the future: One, encourage drivers to drive a little out of the city to the suburbs or rural areasin order to pick up rides at a more frequent rate and to make more money per ride. Two, consider discount pricing, surge pricing and grouped rides in the cities. It isn't a good sign that city drivers are working less than their counterparts from other areas. To incentivize more active users of Pyber consider implementing discount pricing at times and grouped rides like many ride sharing companies have done. Likewise, during busier times when drivers are at a premium conisder using surge pricing to maximize profits. Lastly, and most importantly, find ways to market and compete with other ride sharing companies. The number of rides given in 2018 isn't sustainable. Aggressive marketing and finding a niche in the ride sharing market will be essential for Pyber's long-term success.¶
